these are the heart of your system hi
and welcome back to a new video
Asus contacted me recently a few days
ago and asked if I would be interested
in doing a note book review and then I
thought I don't know note book reviews
are usually not my thing and they're
usually not as interesting unless there
is something special to it like a
special cooling method or whatever they
send it to me anyway and it's the
saaphyri's 314 and then I noticed that
those things contained a new rise in
4,000 mobile CPUs and unless rise in the
3000 which was still using the 12
nanometer CPUs rise in 4,000 mobile is
now finally using a 7 nanometre same as
for example 3900 X and therefore I
thought okay maybe this might get a
little bit interesting and then I set up
both of my laptops right here this is
the Sapphire SG 14 with the 4900 HS
which is using 8 core CPU of seven
nanometer
rice and mobile and on here we have my
HP notebook which we reviewed a few
months ago which is using the core i7 97
50 H in a combination with an r/t X 20
80 well this is using an r/t X 2016 and
then I did a direct comparison with
Adobe premier render performance and
this is really really impressive I'm
just going to show you what I mean
I set up Adobe Premiere on both machines
with the same video file which is
currently my comparison video file
format Dolby rendering speed can see the
configuration right here it's a 4k video
30fps and it's using a video length of
12 minutes now on the HP notebook say
I'm under Asus of iris again 4k 30fps
with about 12 minutes video length I
just launched the rendering on this HP
notebook now we see the estimated render
time is at almost 25 minutes it keeps
increasing because once the laptop gets
warmer and then the boost drops and the
time increases and now the same thing on
this of iris now check this out we are
at about 7% right now it still needs
about estimated 15 minutes meanwhile on
the core i7 9750 age it's already at 20%
but it's still
takes 22 minutes now to compare the
benchmarks numbers we are looking at the
dobby premiere 4k video times basically
what we just saw here in comparison with
different CPUs that's what I always use
for comparison on the bottom we see the
9750 age which takes over 27 minutes if
we use the 99 80 HK which is pretty much
the same CPU but two additional course
it's using 8 cores 16 threads
it's the high-end model from Intel also
quite a bit more expensive it still
takes 20 minutes using this thing right
here with our 940 900 HS it takes less
than 18 minutes especially comparing the
size of those models especially the 99 a
thk I was using I think it was one of
those in very massive Asus notebooks and
yeah just comparing this with the G 14
I'm really really impressed by the
numbers we're almost in the region of a
3700 X desktop CPU more in the region of
the 7 8 20 X scaling X CPU but this is
also desktop there for numbers so far
for the rice and mobile 4000 absolutely
impressive quick rundown of the specs of
the saaphyri's G 14 in particular on my
table I have a US version 14-inch with
Full HD and 120 Hertz it's also
available in wqhd and 60 Hertz different
CPU and GPU configurations for example
4800 HS in this notebook right here I
have the 4900 H as I said before in
combination with an r/t X 2060 that's
the highest model that's available there
are also lower GPUs available like 1650
and it's available with up to 32
gigabyte of memory with 32 100 megahertz
memory speed which is really really cool
most notebooks don't have such high
memory speed I think that's also where
those CPUs can get their extra bit of
performance talking about performance
the CPU in here has a base clock of 3.3
alerts compared with some of the Intel
CPUs for example 9750 H that's inside
the other one we have I think a base log
of 2 point 6 gigahertz and this one has
three point three gigahertz base 4.40
Hertz boosts that is really really
impressive those of us also feature
something new I find interesting it's
called the SS tv2 system temperature
tracking version 2 according to AMD they
improved their temperature reading by
adding more and more accurate sensors to
the CPU and therefore they can allow the
CPU to work more on the edge then you
might think but then it's running higher
temperature isn't that bad those CPUs
mobile CPUs especially are always made
to run at their temperature and also TDP
limit and if you can cool them better
you can get more performance out of them
that's usually how it works in mobile
business and if there's somehow a way
that you can ensure that your CPU is
running for example at 95 degree Celsius
and you know that it's running at 95
degree Celsius then you can work with it
but if your CPU is running at 90 degree
celsius and you think that it might run
at 90 95 degree Celsius because your
temperature reading is not as accurate
then you might lose performance and
that's why AMD improved at least that's
what assets improve the temperature
reading to allow those CPUs to run more
on the edge to provide more performance
which is something I find interesting if
we lift up the display of the g14 we're
increasing the height between the
chassis and the bottom therefore the
cold air intake is improved system
temperature is improved that's
definitely a good cooling feature and on
here we also have a power button that
includes a fingerprint sensor and it
really works quite well works out nicely
for me to log into Windows as you can
see ad rising master is not supported
I'm not sure if it's because it's prior
to launch or if those CPUs will not be
supported in general however I can
strongly recommend to use armory create
the tool from Asus because it really has
some very very useful functions starting
off with the profiles right here we have
silent performance turbo currently
because I want to keep the noise level
low for shooting the video using silent
mode there is a significant performance
difference switching to performance of
turbo between those two there is not
that much of a difference the tool in
general
nice because on the right you can also
see the CPU fan speed and also the
system acoustics I'm not sure how
accurate this is if this is just a
simulated number or if there is really a
microphone in there I doubt it but could
be but there's also something really
cool because you can go to manual and
set your old fan curve which is
something quite unusual for laptops and
on here you can see I set everything for
example to 100% which is something I
used for benchmarking and then you can
push it to the maximum fan speed all the
time helps you to get a little bit extra
performance you can keep track of for
example CPU frequency memory frequency
CPU frequency also the temperatures
that's quite cool and something you
don't find in so many laptops I now
switched the hour equates to turbo modes
because we want to see how the CPUs
react with a cinnamon jar 15 considering
the CPU boost I already opened hardware
info you can already see that all of the
cores pretty much hit 4.4 gigahertz the
advertised boost 43 92 I think we can
count this as four point four gigahertz
and now let's perform Cinebench r15
single and now we have about 43 42 43 67
and in the German take I just did
previously we had two CPU to boost to 40
392 it doesn't always boost to this
frequency but it almost hits it
considering that they're advertising up
too and I already saw it here we have it
43 92 I think we can let us count and
AMD definitely improved the boost
behavior especially comparing this with
the early days of rice and 3,000 desktop
I'm really happy that it worked out the
boost clock is there especially
considering that this is a mobile device
it's so much more of a challenge in a
mobile device because you're so much
more limited in cooling than on a
desktop unit therefore really impressive
that they can really hit the 4.4
gigahertz boost now looking at Cinebench
r20 performance numbers on the bottom we
have the 97 50 H 432 points in a single
and 2500 points roughly in multi
980 HK is faster with 471 points in
singer 3570 eight points in multi but
the 4900 HS from AMD is a lot faster in
single core especially almost as fast as
the 3700 ex which is really impressive
and multi is not that far behind with 41
20 points before we're going to take a
look inside the G 14 to compare some of
the internals especially cooling and
also try to see you if we can improve
thermal pace for example we need some
baseline numbers and for that we're
going to use W Prime and W prime is a
quite nice benchmark in the regard that
you're getting the time the benchmark
takes you don't get like a benchmark
result like in Cinebench are twenty even
though if your system is faster it will
end the benchmark quicker but on w prime
you will get the exact render time on
notebooks this can be really helpful
because as I said before most of them
are thermally limited TDP limited boost
limited therefore if you improve the
cooling the CPU will boost higher will
use more power and therefore it might be
that the temperature is not even
dropping after you increase the thermal
performance however the real performance
will improve and you can see that by
running benchmarks where you can see the
exact performance or time you could also
use Cinebench or 20 for example
obviously there are other benchmarks you
can use for comparison but W prime gives
you the exact render time and therefore
can be really helpful for comparison in
this regard benchmark is running CPU is
running as I said before usually at the
thermal limit 94 degree Celsius which is
okay we're utilizing all 16 threats and
I also reset a hardware info while
running the benchmark it's over now but
the average clock was during the
benchmark about 3800 megahertz and
considering that the base clock was
advertised with 3.3 this is about 500
megahertz above what they advertised
considering that I was utilizing all 16
threats and the base performance number
we have right here is 78 point five
seconds
[Music]
open the machine we see the cooling
right here with two massive and also
quite interesting fans they have a quite
interesting feature we're going to take
a look at in a second we have the nvme
drive right here
the nvme drive has a massive thermal pad
on the bottom that gives it additional
stability and can dissipate heat from
the SSD to the PCB which is sitting
underneath and the SSD is also kind of
wrapped in a thermal interface material
it's like a thermal conductive foil that
can transfer the heat through the whole
SSD and therefore more efficiently
dissipate the heat over the pad to the
PCB right here memory module is sitting
right here it's not soldered which is
something I absolutely appreciate you
can just get the smallest model yourself
and then upgrade the memory is usually
cheaper insert the modules up creates
the memory
[Music]
quite interesting that everything inside
here is thermal paste even on the video
memory and also on the voltage
regulators even for GPU and also for CPU
everything is a thermal pace you can see
it also on the heatsink right here for
inductors and all power stages via
memory the GPU that are TX 2060 is using
thermal pace and also the CPU the AMD
Rison which is sitting right here I'm
going to use liquid metal which is
possible because it's copper however you
have to be aware that using liquid metal
on naked copper instead of nickel plated
copper you have to reapply it after like
1 or 2 months because some of the liquid
metal will form an alloy with the copper
eventually it will look like it dried
out and therefore reapplication of the
liquid metal within 1 or 2 months of the
first application is necessary taking a
closer look at the heat pipe itself it
also has some very very interesting
features apart from the fact that it's 5
heats heat pipes which is nothing really
special we have two fans with 82 fan
blades each that's quite a lot looks
like this fan just really consists of
fins and they all have different lengths
and having different lengths on the fan
blades helps to reduce noise that's
quite interesting some of them have a
diameter of like 50 millimeter then the
next one has like 50.5 and it creates
turbulence is very small to lenses
inside the fan and therefore reduces now
it's very interesting feature something
I have not seen or heard before that you
really make that because you would
assume that if you have different
lengths of fan blades then it would not
run smooth but it's perfectly engineered
that they all work against each other
and therefore it's still running smooth
we have four small stacks for heat sinks
here here here and here and it looks
like it's not much surface area but in
reality it's 688 square centimeters if
you compare that with a sheet of paper
a4 size it has about 620 square
centimeters surface area therefore this
those small fin stacks have more surface
area than a sheet of paper and that's
only possible because
they're very very tiny very thin and
extremely dense stacked
while cleaning CPU and GPU a notice that
there is a very thin foil around both of
those parts most likely to protect some
of the SMD caps that are sitting
underneath but if we want to apply a
liquid metal it could happen that some
of the liquid metal goes through this
tiny gap then touches some of those a
Xindi caps and causes short circuits
that's something we absolutely want to
prevent therefore we're going to remove
those foils and replace it with nail
polish
[Music]
by the way what do you think about my
nice cat stuff which I mounted on the
wall so she can walk up this ball and go
right up here and chill over there while
I'm working shooting videos she has been
sitting there for like two or three
hours while I've been shooting this
video did you enjoy your nap
[Music]
everything is assembled again um
recreate is set to the turbo mode W
prime is open also H of you info going
to launch the benchmark and at the same
time we set HW info halfway through the
benchmark average across all course
about four gigahertz temperature also
looks quite good with about 80 degree
Celsius right now previously with stock
thermal paste after a benchmark we had
an average about 3.8 gigahertz shaved
off about two seconds in the benchmark
score while cutting down temperature by
10 degrees Celsius max at the end of the
benchmark I had an average of still
about 4 gigahertz so increased it by at
least 150 megahertz in average during
the benchmark we are going to rerun CIN
adventure our 20 you can hear it fans
are set manually again to 100% fan speed
that's also what I did for my previous
benchmark result the previous result was
4000 120 points now again 7700 rpm see
what we can get
Wow seriously wow the performance
numbers especially after also applying
liquid metal and getting what the host
CPUs are really capable of now the
single core performance is on the same
level as the 3700 X and multi-core
increased by another 200 points that's
almost the level of a 99 hundred K not
as good as the 3,700 X but still I mean
it's it's a mobile device right and then
I also repeated the Adobe premier test
and that is even more impressive now we
have pretty much the same performance as
seven a 20x skylake X desktop high-end
desktop CPU I know that it's this is two
generations all but skylake X desktop is
still very very fast CPU nowadays and
considering that
we're getting the same performance out
of a mobile device than what you get
with a skylake X desktop this
mind-blowing this is this is for my
opinion even more impressive than the
desktop CPUs have been and looking at
the mobile market right now previously
Intel was always dominating mobile
really really hard but now I don't see
why you would get intel on mobile I
really don't see why you would get Intel
and on I mean no desktop 9900 K or 9900
KS is still very good CPU for gaming so
so it can be used but for mobile this
CPU mind blowing angel intro will have a
really really hard time right now
because if they're also losing the
mobile sales because previously they
were only losing desktop sales which is
not that bad mobile market is also a
significant income for Intel and if
they're losing the mobile sales they
will be in big big trouble let me know
what you think about this in the
comments below
and keep in mind as I said before if
you're doing in liquid metal
modifications like this especially if
it's naked copper if it's not
nickel-plated keep in mind you have to
repay so after one or two months
otherwise you will lose in temperature
thanks for joining in see you next time
[Music]